to be a court reporter in the Navy. I did steno mask,
and then I would have to take that, put the
earphones on and type it all up. It's a mess. Does
she have to listen to it? Does she have earphones
on? Yeah, I used to do that. I used to have these
court marshals and You were talking about
Calhoun. Oh yes, Stately. I think Stately was the
word. But he was also very available.
Did you all think A&M was making progress during
those days? Oh, I thought it was just going. I
thought I was involved in the greatest
development of any school in history. Well, I
think a lot of people felt that way. The schools up
north were declining. This was almost a
renaissance.
The student body was growing in number.
What about the quality? Oh, yes. I think the women
were helping that, too. Well, very fine. Do you
remember any changes in the way you all did things
with women? Did that affect the way— No, I don't
remember any problem with political correctness
or that kind of thing. We were just natural. I think
everybody was very respectful of women. What
about minorities? Do you remember when you first
had some black students? Yes, I didn't have very
many.
That was hard. I mean, I was different. Most of my
students were typical Anglo-Saxon. I remember
that we tutored the football team a couple of
times. Describe that. Well, it was volunteer for
the students. I thought if I could develop their
vocabulary, this would help. So I built Greek and
Latin roots and added suffixes and tried to make
football stories out of it. I'm not sure that I
developed many new words for them, but vocabulary
is what I wanted. The football players were all
very respectful. I had one student, I remember his
name was Lord. Do you remember? Lord was one of our
outstanding football players. He used to call me
and say, this is the Lord speaking. But he was
always being carried off the field, and I would
groan. He won't be in class for a while now. But the
students at the football tutoring were very nice,
just like anyone else. But I'm not sure I grabbed
them with vocabulary. Did, in your doing that, did
the athletic department ask for, did anyone from
athletics ever ask you to give special treatment
to any student? No one ever did. And they did when I
was at Lycoming College. But no one ever did, and
they would come around and see if they needed any
help with them or if they were attending class. It
was all very professional. In all of your years
here, did anyone in authority, real or
self-appointed authority, ever try to influence
the grade you gave anyone? No. No politician, no
board member, no Rich Aggie? No, I can't think of
any problem with that at all. Now, when I was at
Brooklyn College, I remember students saying if I
didn't give them an A, they would go to Vietnam,
things like that. But I'm sure that there were
incidents where they didn't agree with my grade. I
don't recall any outside pressure. By the end of
the 70s, were you still teaching primarily
undergraduate courses? By the end of the 70s,
almost all graduate courses. Describe how that's
different. Well, it's much easier in a way. The
classes are smaller. I didn't have any of these
ninety classes. I didn't like a small class
either. If it was under twelve, that was too small.
But the classes were smaller. But of course, most
of my graduate classes were three hours, so I
needed to develop different techniques for
changing the pace. They would meet once a week for
three hours. The summer session they would meet
three hours every day, which put a little pressure
on, but it was they were learning. Three hours once
a week, you have to spend a while warming them up
each time. But that was the difference. length of
the class, but the students were a smaller number
of students. These, by and large, were students
already had an undergraduate degree in what? All
different fields, from physics to English. They
were all different fields, and many of them had
been teaching for a few years, and the master's
degree would help them salary-wise and
professionally. So this was not primarily for
them to be certified. They already were
certified. No, no. Most of this. I think that, if
I'm not mistaken, Most of them were certified.
They could take it without certification. And
geographically they were from? All over. I had
some students traveling from San Antonio. But
they were basically from Texas? Oh, yes. Yes,
there were. Well, I've had some students from
other states, but I think they were here
permanently for the More
women than men. More women than men. Almost no
international students.
You know, I had international students from
Afghanistan, China. Would this have been true in
the early 80s? Yes. I had many foreign students,
and I still have trophies around the house where
they gave me things. I found out later that when you
invite them over to your home, they think they have
to bring you something. I remember a student
begging me not to invite him over anymore, and I
didn't want him to give things. What were some of
the unusual or distinctive gifts that you
remember they brought? Well, I remember a tea set.
Now this was just, I mean, and beautifully
lacquered and things of that sort. And then wall
hangings and some of those scroll paintings from
China. But I didn't realize until later that that
was their custom. But yes, we, from the very
beginning, had international students, many of
them from Afghanistan, I mean, Iran. And when I
taught the cultural foundation, which was a
master's level course, it was interesting that so
many of these Muslim women felt sorry for American
women. And I assume it was because American women
had to work. But our vision of these Muslim women is
that they're terribly
handicapped as far as freedom is concerned. They
didn't seem to worry about it. Well, that was the
impression I got, or they would tell me, about
their culture. In terms of their capability, can
you compare the norm for the U.S. national
students with the norm for the international?
Yes, I think quite definitely there is a
difference, and the more oriental student was a
very good memorizer. And some of these from
Vietnam, they were very conscientious and very
good memorizers, but they didn't always have the
creative mind that some of our students had. What
about their diligence? Well, I think that was all
over on the Asian side. Although our students
generally worked hard, but many of them had
teaching and other responsibilities. Did you
have any Western Hemisphere international
students? Well, I've had some from Mexico and
Venezuela. I had a very fine student from
Venezuela. Compare those Western Hemisphere
international students to the Asian. I don't
think they were quite as good memorizers, but I
don't have a big sample there. I think they were all
good students, though. Did you have to do anything
special in a graduate course that had some U.S.
nationals and some international students?
Well, with the cultural foundations of
education, I developed cultural patterns. I was
trying to teach our people what our own culture was
as well as how to take these cultural patterns and
compare them with different and learn how to
compare and develop cultural understanding. So
some of these people would share their cultural
differences. from language all the way down to
various hierarchies of values into artifacts.
But I don't know that I can say there was a big
difference there. Most of these graduate
students, be they U.S. or international, they
were how far out of undergraduate years?
Well, some had been out for a long time. You're
talking about just the international students?
Well, either. Most of them had been out. I had some
that just went from undergraduate right in, but we
kind of discouraged that. I thought they should be
teaching. Most of these had real experience. Yes,
but some of them had been out for many years. I had
one student who finally sued the university for
prejudice against older people because he didn't
pass a couple of courses. But it turns out he hadn't
turned any of his work in either. But there was a
wide range. I think the doctoral level students
had had were, of course, definitely farther
removed. But the master's level, some would go
right in from the undergraduate. And those I took
to Europe for the comparative ed course. Half of
them had just finished their undergraduate.
Describe one of those trips to Europe. I only made
two. The first was 1982.
We made arrangements. It's an awful lot of work to
do, of course. I think we had about 30 or more
students. We got a grant from Conoco to help defray
the expenses. So it cost, as I recall, about $800.
Most of that was just airfare in those days, $82. We
went to London. and had arrangements to visit all
levels of schools in and around London. And we went
to Oxford and looked through the schools there.
Then we went to Stirling, spent about half our time
in Stirling, Scotland, and then moved out, took
students to all levels of schools and compared
them with American schools. In 1982, I think, the
Falkland War was on and we were getting involved
with some of the political discussions there that
many of them didn't think we were doing enough to
help England. Then I was there in 84, which was the
40th anniversary of D-Day.
I think Reagan was there and a few others. We didn't
get to interview them. Do you remember any goofy
things that happened on either of those trips?
Well, there was always a problem. They thought
this was more of a tour, and they wanted to see
things, and I sympathized with that, wanted to
give them as much time. We had a heart attack, an
older woman, and she got into one of the British
systems. They had a student who had a kidney stone
attack.
The medical facilities there were better, they
thought, than over here, and they actually got
time to talk to doctors. Any goofy things? Goofy.
Nobody got too drunk? No. I didn't see any of that. I
do know that the second time I took my son, who was a
student at Clemson, And we shared the same room.
After the first day, I never saw him. I was asleep
before he ever got in. I'm not just sure what they
were doing. They were out doing things. I can't
recall anything really. Nobody lost their entire
bag? We didn't have any problems of that sort. I do
recall, this is not too funny, but in my cultural
patterns would be ways of doing this, this, this,
and I also had ways of courting and sex, sexual
mores. I think one of the students went to one of the
English professors at the university and asked
about his sexual patterns.
And she said, well, Dr. Campbell asked me to do
that.
By this time, you're directing theses and
dissertations. Oh, yes. And I think I was on, one
time I was on 50 when I had to start listing them
because I would have them at the early stages and
they needed to get a committee together. That was a
big thing at our department. When did the doctoral
program begin? Do you remember? Well, let's see.
We were approved of the The Ed.D. was approved. We
had the Ph.D., I think, earlier. But my memory is
not good. It may have been in the late seventies or
early eighties, but I would have to check on that.
Do you remember some of the first doctoral
students you directed? Well, Barry Thompson was
on his committee. Of course, that was That was the
Ph.D. That was about 1971 or 72. Who was his
chairman? Do you remember? No. I think he started
out with this man that I can't think of who was a
colleague there of Dean Huber. But Glenn Johnson
was on the committee, and I was asked to get in on
that because somebody couldn't meet the defense.
So I was not in on the total thing, but he became
chancellor. What was he doing then? He was
teaching. He was a very young man. He may have been
down at Pan American or something of that sort, but
this was early in the stages. But your question was
who were some of the people that I had?
I can't take credit for the fine things that he did.
I'm not sure. I think his dissertation had
something to do with junior colleges or some
aspect.
Of course, Miss Scobie, you know, the wife of the
astronaut who was killed? Oh, yes, yes. She was in
several of my classes.
Do you remember, have any idea how many masters and
PhDs you directed? Yes. Or doctoral degrees,
either Ed.D. or Ph.D. The Ed.D. or Ph.D., I think I
only directed about eight. But I think I was on so
many as the bridesmaid. What's the difference
really in a Ph.D. in education and an Ed.D. in
education? Well, originally it was the language
requirement. And
then we replaced the language requirement with
statistics. And I think the Ed.D. did not require
statistics. We also had the M.A. and the M.E.D.,
and the M.A. required a thesis, and the M.E.D. did
not, but it required some extra coursework. But
the Ed.D. required a dissertation. Oh, yes, and
there was not any difference. Really? In terms of
future professional advantage, which was the
better degree for the person to get?
Well, when I was at Columbia, they said the EdD was
better. But
I always think the Ph.D. is better. It goes a longer
tradition. That would have been my guess. Yes. But
there was a time when they thought that EdD was more
specialized. Which was, in terms of the number of
students in the years that you spent here, which
was more popular? I think the Ph.D. was still the
most popular, and they would take the statistics
rather than the foreign language. All right, you
all moved over to the, did you move from the
academic to the Harrington building? Yes.
Describe where the department and the college was
put when that moved here. Well, our department,
the curriculum and instruction, I think
originally was on the fifth floor. A few years
later we were moved to the third floor. But I
remember when we were on the fifth floor, the fire
department came and I saw the chief sweating and
mumbling to himself. He thought it was a fire trap.
Then we moved to the third floor. I don't know if
it's so we'd be safer, but that was curriculum and
instruction. I think Ed Add mainly had the second
floor, and then of course Dean Hubert and the Dean
of Liberal Arts were up on the eighth floor. Now,
who else, what other education departments were
in the Harrington building? Oh, education. We had
everything except industrial ed and PE and
agriculture. Oh, and ag ed. Yeah, ag ed was not
there. The others were there, and we also had the
English department, I think, and then the history
department was there later. I believe they stayed
over at academic, didn't they, for a while, but
they later took over the Yeah. As far as you were
concerned, describe your office. Well, every
office I had had a window, which was nice. The old
academic building, I didn't have a window.
Marvelous facilities. And of course the computer
came in. I think, I can't remember exactly what it
was, but I was going to resist it to the grave. But
then they brought them in and put them in our
office. What kind of instruction was there? Well,
we didn't have very much. We did have a day or two of
it, and it was just beyond me. I didn't take it
seriously. So mainly it was self-taught, and we
had IBM clones. But if I had had the computer from my
earlier stages, I probably could have stayed
teaching longer. I wouldn't have worn myself out.
I had files. I was just climbing the walls and I was
using the floor. But the computer was coming in in
my last years. Now, prior to the computer, you had
been typing everything? An electric typewriter.
Of course, in the Navy I had been a court reporter
and I was typing all the time. So typing was my
thing. And your compensation was all from the
university, so you didn't have many grants? I
never got a grant, except this conical for the...
And so you didn't have many graduate assistants to
help you do your research? No. I made a few
proposals, about two or three proposals, which
were never granted. But my field, of course, is not
one that attracts a lot of interest for grants like
reading and other bread and butter kinds of
courses. As you all move over into that building in
the 80s, were there any key additions to the
departmental faculty? Well, we were keenly
growing. But there's a kid's story about that new
building. which may or may not be true. But where we
had the early childhood room, they had a sandbox.
And I believe that became notorious around the
university that the College of Education had
installed a sandbox in its I don't remember ever
seeing the sandbox, but we did have the early
childhood there. There were, as I recall, a few
bats that remained in the building that had been
there in that older building. But the transition,
we moved from different floors a couple of times,
as I say, from the fifth curriculum instruction
went to the third.
There were adjustments in moving around, but it
was a marvelous facility. Faculty additions,
key. Who were some new colleagues?
Dave Armstrong, who later became a dean of
education in North Carolina, was one of our very
fine young men. There
were some, you know, my memory is lapsing. I can't
even remember certain philosophers anymore.
Oh, Donna Norton, of course, came when we were in
the new building, and she is outstanding in
children's literature. How were women faculty
members treated in that department? I think they
were treated
just fine. Can I give a little anecdote? Please.
Oh, more anecdotes than that. We had a dean. She did
a nice job, but she called all the men in one time.
This was about the time I was—this is not Dean
Hubert. It's the Lady Dean. seemed to indicate
that we were not treating women right, and we were
not told what happened, and she just wanted to make
sure that there wouldn't be none of that. There
must have been some reason for her doing that, but
it kind of turned some of us off to be called in like
little boys. It turns out that I think someone had
disagreed with a woman in a faculty meeting, and
you're not supposed to disagree, I guess. But I've
always thought everything was very good. But I
opened doors for women, and I guess that was
probably not good either. Do you remember when the
first black faculty member came in? Yes. Well, of
course, we had Vi Flores, who is now dean at New
Mexico. She was Mexican-American. And she worked
with the dean of the president, I think, Vi Flores.
She was one of the first minorities, just a lovely
person.
This lady, she's still there, and her husband is in
another department who are black. Oh gosh, I know
her just as well as I can. And we have several of them
now, and I've been on committees, one of them from
Africa. Do you remember any difficulties? No.
Good. I can't remember any problem.
Now, if you were to ask some of the women, this might
be different. I do remember one woman I can't think
of her name now, but she was very good. She said she
wanted to be sure she got the same amount of money.
So it could be they were not getting the same amount
of money, and I just didn't keep track of that. But I
always thought we had mostly women students. This
is a field where women are leaders. Did you and your
colleagues feel that the college was being
treated fairly in the 80s and 90s? I always did,
yes. And I had experience at a small liberal arts
college where most of the departments had more
faculty members than majors. And we were turning
out a third or more of the graduates, certifying
them, and we had three full-time people. Now,
Glenn Johnson served as department head how long?
Oh, at least five years. Then who followed him? Bob
Schutz followed him. We seemed to just wear our
department heads out. It's a big job with all the
certification and so on, but Glenn Johnson was
getting ill. Then Bob Schutz took over and he had a
heart attack.
Then we had David David and Phil Limbacher.
Well, about Peters, Jim Kroc, a very fine man. And
then I retired about, I think we had,
I'm sorry, her name is so... You retired what year?
1992. But I broke my hip in 89, and I think I went on
half time for a while. All right. During those
years, What was the primary function of the
department head? What was he or she to do? That was
everything, as far as I could tell. Of course, I see
it from without being the department head, but I
think he was responsible for everything. Under
Dean Hubert, I think Dean Hubert kind said, this is
your job, but you report to me. But I think, like
Glenn Johnson and Bob Schutz, they had to do
everything. Now, when Dean Hubert moved up to be
chancellor, who followed him as? Oh, this was, and
I was on the committee that selected him. Was that
Dean Corrigan? Dean Corrigan, wonderful man.
Fairly different style, but very effective.
Describe his manner. Jolly and very
insightful. I think he knew everything he said. He
could back it up. He was interested in all areas.
But he was more accessible and congenial. Dean
Hubert was congenial but harsher, kind of. The
surface was a little harder. Dean Corrigan was
very accessible. And he served until about the
time you retired, didn't he? Yes. Did the college
make good progress during those years, you think?
Oh, yes. I think more than ever. I think the
visibility, because Dean Corrigan had some